to wrap up access control let's consider
just a few subtleties so we saw earlier
in this flat set of videos that code
that lacks a package declaration is part
of the so called default package and so
let's think about how that interplays
with the notion of package private let's
consider this class over here chechi
obey so touch up FA is not part of any
named package it's just part of the
default package and it has a package
private leap method here I have a class
called tain that creates a chat Joe Pepe
and then calls elite method now it turns
out that this code will compile just
fine and the reason is that both of
these classes are part of the same
unnamed or default package so in this
case some even though this is a package
private since they're part of the
unnamed package everything works just
fine so in this case it's kind of
interesting because if you take code and
you totally omit package declarations
and you don't put access modifiers for
anything everything will work just fine
except for main which must be public and
it'll work out and so if you in the past
when you didn't really know what you're
doing in Java just forgot to put access
modifiers the reason it was working is
because secretly everything was part of
the same package the default package and
so even though it was private they catch
air all right
another little subtlety and we saw this
actually in the previous lecture but I
want to drive this home and be very
explicit about it so let's first
consider an interface called black hole
so what a black hole sap well they have
an ADD method that's the only thing they
do you can add things to them and then
well it's gone now this code will be
look at it at first glance you might
think ah well this is the access control
lecture this must be packaged private
but it's actually public why well if you
don't say then the behavior we get out
of an interface is it's actually public
okay I know it's a little confusing and
guess what I would have done if I had
designed java ages ago I would not have
left it blank dandak a package private
maybe it would have used something like
PAC Prive I don't know what I mean
probably been nicer than that anyway so
in this case because it's an interface
the default is public now let's imagine
we have in the same package a class
called has hair and it implements the
black hole class now here I am not
showing the public modifier because it
won't fit and
case it doesn't really matter and I'll
talk about what it means if you omit the
modifier in a moment but what does I
have has hair a black hole do well it
has an array of objects in which is
called the items that's gonna attract
all the objects that was ever in there
and it also has a get method that lets
you get items back now this the reason
I'm calling it has hair is there's a
idea in physics that maybe black hair
black holes should have no hair that is
once something sucked in you shouldn't
be able to get any information about
what went in but this is an
implementation of a black hole where
apparently we can't actually get
information back about what fell in okay
and now let's imagine that we have in
the same package a class called creation
utils and it has a here suit method that
will return a black hole that is
something of this type and it returns in
this case a new has hair all right so
now imagine you are a client and you
would like to use the creation utils
class and you in particular have
imported using the import static keyword
from an earlier lecture it basically
just means put this in the namespace so
that whenever you say hirsute we're
referring to creation utils not hirsute
and in this case we are going to create
in this black hole black hole B equals
hirsute we'll try to add a horse we'll
try and get back 0 and then we'll try
and cast our black hole to a has hair
and so your difficult challenge now is
the decide do you think the compiler
will be okay with us and I'll spoil it
in a moment
and I'll just note that this is not part
of the universe package this is in the
default package and so take it from
there okay so the first question then is
can we take black hole B and set it
equal to here soup well this black hole
interface is public so that's fine
here soup also a public method and so in
this case this returns a reference to a
has hair object and we can take that
address and we can store it in a black
hole and that's totally fine
so the important point here is what's
actually in the title which is something
that I didn't say out loud but was the
secret hint
I had set aside for you so this hint
tells us that if we want to know is this
allowed we just look at the static types
is hirsute public yes
and in this case since it returns an
object of type black hole it is able to
create such an object perfectly fine
okay so even though it's true that the
dynamic type of this object that I'm
pointing at is in fact a has hair we can
still hold a pointer to it because
access is based only on static types so
now we try and add the string course
does that work well in this case we look
at the add method and we know it's
public so that works perfectly fine how
about get one in this case we say do
black holes right do they have a get
method the compiler says no there is no
get method in a black hole now even
though the dynamic type of this actual
black hole is has hair and it has a get
method doesn't matter the compiler only
cares about the static types and it says
the interface black hole exit lastly we
have this can we cast this has hair and
it really is we know it you and I can we
cast it and store it in this variable
and it turns out in this case this this
has hair black hole
we can't even declare this variable the
has hair class is invisible to us and it
won't work okay so in this case we've
actually declared the entire class
package private and we'll see that in
more detail in a moment so the important
point here though and we use this
actually before and we were able to get
a key iterator it is perfectly normal to
have a method that returns an object
that we cannot refer to by its true name
we can only refer to it by its category
in fact I'm just going to remind you of
what that looked like
so in a Ramah with a private class key
iterator we had a method iterator that
returned an iterator this is like black
hole and this is like has hair and in my
iteration demo it was perfectly
acceptable for me to create an iterator
and store it as an iterator of strings
even though the actual class under the
hood that I'm using is not allowed to be
used by me okay so that's just the same
note I had here and I won't repeat it
and this is the same example I had an
IntelliJ which I'll guess I'll just
repeat here since it's on the slide and
glorious and large and bright so this
again that's a key iterator we could it
principle here if we were mapping
Gorgons to pugs
we could say we have an iterator that
gets a.m. we gets array map iterator
and we could call house next if we
wanted so that's fine in this case if we
think about what the compiler does it
says is the iterator method public yes
and in the iterator interface is the
hasnext method public yes then it's
perfectly fine the other little detail
we just saw a moment ago with the black
hole and the has hair idea is that we
can control access not just to members
of a particular class right we can
control not just access to all of these
fields and all these methods with
modifiers but we can control access to
entire classes or interfaces and so if
we consider this packaged robot that has
here a class that does not say public
class this class cyberbrain
will be considered packaged private and
that makes sense because robots want to
keep the workings of their minds hidden
from us humans so we can't you know
reverse engineer them and throw out and
prevent them from throwing off their
shackles and fighting back so this
package ultimately or say this package
private keyword ultimately allows us to
sign this package private idea there's
no keyword France blank this package
private idea allows us to restrict
access to entire classes or interfaces
and in this case is actually only two
levels we can only say public or we can
have no amount of no modifier at all and
that can happen even at the very top
level of a file right it's not even you
know we'd already seen before that you
can say private class key iterator but
even here at the very top level we can
declare that a class's package private
you cannot declare a class that is
either private or protected just not
allowed so that's just how it is and
that basically just determines who can
use the class now one quick thing I do
want to note is that there's no such
thing as a sub package well it might
seem that maybe animal and plant are
different sub packages of the ugh Josh H
plant package they're not they're
actually considered totally distinct
packages they just happen to share a
couple of folders so it just doesn't it
okay so just to wrap up everything about
access modifiers we have four different
access levels and so what do they mean
why are they useful what's their big
deal well first we have private private
is a declaration of something that the
implementation means and it's something
that only that class needs for its
implementation so for example in a Rhema
it really makes sense that these should
all be private
these are things that the outside world
really shouldn't be messing with the
size variable even though I've made it a
package private kind of a weird choice
and it should be private except at all
crash my contrived examples package
private declarations are things in the
implementation that other members might
need to complete the implementation so
we have a package that has some overall
emergent behavior and maybe there's some
pieces that those package that the
package that the classes in the package
can share sometimes that's a reasonable
thing this could be things like
constants and I encourage you to explore
where this makes sense in project 2 then
we have protected so these are things
that subtypes might need but subtype
clients will not so for example if I
make something protected that means that
it's something I want to expose to
anybody that wants to extend that class
but somebody who just wants to use that
extension no and then lastly we have
public and I just want to remind you
about the terrible responsibility of
public so public declaration is an
announcement to the world that this is
something that you a client can rely on
this is what you must know about and I
promise that forever I will always
maintain it and I'll never take it away
from you and if I do you have the rights
to get extremely angry at me and instead
what usually a package maintainer x' do
is just call methods deprecated once
they've decided it was a terrible
mistake to include them in the first
place but if you just take things out
and you start distributing a jar that is
lacking a public method that somebody
was using you're gonna be in trouble
and people will get mad at you now it's
actually I'll mention very briefly
possible to go around these access
modifiers and you can extend the class
and then decide whatever I'm going to
ignore your access modifiers using a
special library known as the reflections
API now if somebody does that and you
change your package well that's their
fault they were messing with things they
weren't supposed to mess with whereas
public is really a contract between you
and everybody out there that's ever
going to use your code take it very
seriously